# Meeting #12, 18th August 2022

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/0Ro2059UvKE" %}

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle v3 Meeting #11 <a href="#minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6" id="minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6"></a>

### Present (in order of first speaking) <a href="#present-in-order-of-first-speaking" id="present-in-order-of-first-speaking"></a>

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member); **Steve Lockhart** (standing in for Mercy; Funded Proposers); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers);  **Felix Weber** (CF); **Tomi Astikainen** (PAs); **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators); **Peter** (secretary); **Kriss Baird** (IOG).

### Speaker percentages

**Nori** (24%), **Quasar** (19%), **Tomi** (14%), **Kriss** (14%), **Felix** (10%), **Rhys** (8%), **Steve** (6%), **Joey** (3%), **Peter** (2%)

### Abbreviations used/Glossary <a href="#abbreviations-used-glossary" id="abbreviations-used-glossary"></a>

[please scroll down](meeting-12-18th-august-2022.md#abbreviations-glossary)

## 1. Opening, agenda (0:00) <a href="#1.-opening-agenda-0-00" id="1.-opening-agenda-0-00"></a>

Check-in  **(0:03)**\
****Action items **(3:36)**\
****Announcements **(5:53)** IdeaFest videos are uploaded on Swarm channel **(Felix)**

{% hint style="warning" %}
<mark style="color:purple;">**Summariser’s note**</mark>: _the IdeaFest videos have been grouped according to the GPS categories._

__\
_Also of note is that the booking form for ATH now requires people to select which of the GPS categories their ATH relates to. There is no option for "none"._&#x20;
{% endhint %}

**Agenda (6:19): Items added:** titling of e.g. Google docs to  make it clear they originate from Circle**(Quasar)**; request for info from IOG re: who is on their Coordinator team **(Quasar)**; how to recruit candidates for the redesigned CCv4 seats, and how CCv3 can start building the sub-circles for CCv4 **(Tomi)**; deciding voting criteria for CCv4 vote **(Felix)**

### Clarity on last week's vote

**Steve Lockhart (14:26)** I'm unclear whether it has been agreed that CCv4 seats should be defined by the 5 GPS categories.\
**Nori (15:01)** There was a vote on this in the previous meeting, so that’s decided.

{% hint style="warning" %}
_<mark style="color:purple;">**Summariser’s note**</mark><mark style="color:purple;">:</mark> as outlined in the documentation of the previous meeting on 4th August, it may not have been clear to everyone in the meeting that this was a formal vote, as per Steve’s comment above._

_Also, misleading analysis of the Pol.is poll results may have influenced Circle members’ positions._

_Nori’s comment here suggests he was using a "consent" approach on 4th August – i.e. if there are no strong objections, then something is passed – but this methodology was not made clear to those in the meeting at the time, and some may not have realised this was the approach being taken._
{% endhint %}

**(16:26)** Agreement to prioritise election-related topics on the agenda.

## 2. Consent agenda <a href="#3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01" id="3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01"></a>

### **Election (17:46)**

### **Key documents:**

[CCv4 election checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gZ1HiGUMr2kKG-X3Pem1J3wfV3U-SmEbl\_\_YulSpu4M/edit?usp=sharing) created by Felix – tasks that need to be done\
__[Catalyst GPS Trustee Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oVRto5fI7gKnhNlRrdfZ41fRwQXLCAHqiFaphweKONg/edit?usp=sharing) created by Tomi – a guidance document to tell CCv4 reps and subcircle members how to work\
[Shared notes on Circle v4 composition](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13et1Ddrtfs8\_ytoJBray1EvMdU5r4z4JMp611Wuj8pU/edit#heading=h.umbsz2hm3qvm) – originally created by Tomi? – Copied by Zoe\
[Nomination criteria](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nkpJpQz9Uu9FgyC-ktmefW9bWxeGo-uqCJJdkRhIlwM/edit#gid=12559180) for candidates for election to CCv4

**21:45** Date for CCv4 election, to allow sufficient time for informing the community before nominations open, the nomination process, and to allow DripDropz to carry out their work.\
**Steve (22:34)** Election launch should be all the Town Halls, not just Wednesday Town Hall.\
**Kriss (25:52**) We should work backwards from the vote itself. We need information material about Circle.\
**Rhys (28:26)**  Re-use information from the last election, with the categories updated.\
**Tomi (30:12)**  Was there any decisions made _\[i.e. from IOG_] about incentives – is it coming from Treasury?

**(32:53)** Interpersonal tension

**Nori (37:55)** Date for the vote: Sept 22nd - October 2nd. Does everyone agree? \[no objections]\
**Nori (40:37)** Nomination window for candidates will be September 1st -14th, and September 15th – 22nd  to check nominations. Does everyone agree? \[_no objections_]\
**Felix (41:15)** Nomination criteria – base them on those used for CCv3 - experience, commitment, engagement, etc. See [Nomination criteria](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nkpJpQz9Uu9FgyC-ktmefW9bWxeGo-uqCJJdkRhIlwM/edit#gid=12559180)\
**Steve (42:49)** This should be a priority – if we are encouraging people to stand for election, they need to know what they’re standing for.\
**Felix (43:17)** We also need to know from IOG about whether compensation will be via a parameter change.\
**Kriss (43:45)** I understood that a working group was going to create a proposal on what the expected amount is.\
**Felix (45:19)** Submitting a proposal is a lot of work – it won’t be ready in the time we have.\
**Rhys (45:59)** To speed things up, I propose $1,000 a month per person.\
**Tomi (46:56)** Is the term 3 months?\
**Kriss (47:08**) I think we agreed 6 months with a stage gate at 3 months to ask if they want to continue\
**Tomi (47:55)** I suggest $3,000 per month per sub-circle, to fund a rep, a secretary and a facilitator.\
**Nori (49:27)** It sounds like $1,000 is where people feel comfortable, and there is a proposal to do it in ADA. Kriss, is that enough information to take back to IOG?\
**Kriss (49:49**) The last conversation that the IOG governance team had with Charles,  is that new decisions on Treasury movements aren't necessarily going to be just decided by the existing stakeholders. I’ll bring feedback next week; it might mean we need a baseline service-level agreement on what people will be doing for that money.\
**Quasar (53:47)** Is funding for Challenge Teams agreed?\
**Kriss (54:00)** Yes for F7, 8 and 9; but for F10, I will check and report back next week.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark>**:** Kriss to take proposal of $1,000 per seat per month back to IOG, and report back next week.\
<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark>** ** Kriss to find out if Challenge Team funding for F10 is agreed, , and report back next week.

&#x20;

### **Nomination criteria**

**Nori (57:19**) We need to finalise nomination criteria by next week.\
**Joey, Rhys (57:45)** Agreement to do this in this meeting \
See [Nomination criteria](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nkpJpQz9Uu9FgyC-ktmefW9bWxeGo-uqCJJdkRhIlwM/edit#gid=12559180)&#x20;

The responsibilities listed are:

1. represent the Catalyst community, its needs, divisions and all its beautiful frictions
2. represent the interests of the functional role they're selected for, and provide a unique perspective to the others
3. exercise their own best judgement about matters that come before the Circle
4. familiarise other members with the projects, activities, aims, hopes, and concerns of their communities
5. periodically take the opportunity to introduce policy proposals into the Circle's agenda for consideration
6. inform their communities about the initiatives of the Circle
7. regularly attend meetings every two weeks
8. maintain an agile backlog list of tracked issues between meetings
9. review and comment on agenda issues ahead of time
10. maintain awareness of the interests and concerns of the community
11. disseminate the Circle outputs transparently and accessibly
12. learn and practice effective meeting procedures
13. produce an election protocol document for the next elections
14. attend training sessions focused on inclusive and lean startup leadership techniques
15. provide feedback on the effectiveness of the Circle.

**(1:02:46)** Decision to remove point 14, “attend training sessions”.\
**Kriss (1:02:53)** What is the user journey? Are all the reps engaging the same people, or are they each going to a subset of the community?\
**Nori (1:05:46)** The dynamic has changed – Circle reps will appoint a secretary and facilitator for their sub-circle, and the community will then come to the sub-circle rather than the rep doing outreach.\
**Tomi (1:06:28)** We can use the Catalyst Discord, or the Catalyst United Discord, for all the subcircles to come together; each subcircle could have its own channel there.

{% hint style="warning" %}
<mark style="color:purple;">**Summariser’s note**</mark>: "_Catalyst United Discord" is the PA/VPA Discord server, which was renamed several months ago._
{% endhint %}

### **Are we making assumptions?**

**Quasar (1:07:13)** I'm concerned that we are assuming that people agree with these categories. Unsure if it will improve the communication between the functional groups. Are we categorising people based on our assumptions?\
**Felix (1:07:58)** Can we work through the other points?\
**Nori (1:08:03)** I want to respond to Quasar. I used to think the same, but now I feel we have to decide the categories now, and then in future iterations the community can decide.\
**Quasar (1:09:02)** Do we know what the goals are? We’ve gone from five functional groups with roles, to 10 stereotypes.\
**Felix (1:09:30)** Our goals and objectives have been well defined by Catalyst GPS.\
**Felix (1:10:00 )**One of our goals from CCv1 is to set up the election process for the next Circle.\
**Quasar(1:10:09**)  Yes. And another goal from CCv1 is to facilitate communications between, and across, the functional groups. How well have we been doing that, and will the new categories help, or not?\
**Kriss (1:11:39**) I appreciate the strategy document that GPS group has produced, but I'm still not sure when it seems to have been unilaterally decided to implement these changes.\
**Nori (1:12:13)** We had a vote at one of the previous Circle meetings, and it was decided. Harris abstained, but did not object to it. And the rest of the Circle did not have strong objection to move forward with this as an experiment.

{% hint style="warning" %}
<mark style="color:purple;">**Summariser's note:**</mark> as previously noted, this might not have been fully understood by everyone in the meeting.
{% endhint %}



\


## 3. Checkout and close

## Key words from this meeting <a href="#key-words-from-this-meeting" id="key-words-from-this-meeting"></a>

## **Abbreviations / Glossary**

**ATH** – After Townhall, the breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

**CATH** – Catalyst Africa Town Hall

**Catalyst School** – [https://thecatalyst.school](https://thecatalyst.school/)

**CC** – Catalyst Circle

**CF** – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org/)

**CGO** - [Community Governance Oversight](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/), a F7 and F8 funded proposal that has created a team to discuss and provide oversight of key Catalyst governance processes

**CIP** – Cardano Improvement Proposal [https://cips.cardano.org](https://cips.cardano.org/)&#x20;

**CTC** - Catalyst Technical Council, a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

dRep – delegation representative, a new role that will be introduced for Fund 10; people to whom a voter will be able to delegate their voting power. See the [registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform)

**DIDs** – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

**ETH** – [Eastern Town Hall](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV2lFD4AtGRT-WIrLoX58lg)

**Gimbalabs** - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

**GPS or Catalyst GPS** – an F8 Catalyst funded proposal led by current Circle member Tomi [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299) which seeks to reorganise Catalyst.

**IOG** – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io/)

**LatAm** – the Catalyst community in Latin America. Comprises a regular Town Hall and several other community initiatives.

**NFT** – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

**PA** - Proposal Assessor, a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round (previously called CA, Community Advisor).

**QA-DAO** – [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)

**SPO** – stakepool operator

**VPA** - Veteran Proposal Assessor; a role open to those who have been a PA in previous rounds, which assesses the PAs’ reviews  (previously VCA, Veteran Community Advisor).

**Voltaire** – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## Appendix

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting <a href="#intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting" id="intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon

### Agenda for this meeting <a href="#agenda-for-this-meeting" id="agenda-for-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon
