# Meeting #16, 13th October 2022

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/St-VF_iEytU" %}

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle v3 Meeting #16 <a href="#minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6" id="minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6"></a>

### Present (in order of first speaking) <a href="#present-in-order-of-first-speaking" id="present-in-order-of-first-speaking"></a>

**Felix Weber** (CF);  **Kyle** (DripDropz); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers**); Lloyd Duhon** (DripDropz); **Rhys Morgan (representing SPOs); Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member); **Steve Lockhart** (deputy for Mercy; Funded Proposers); **Kriss Baird** (IOG).

### Speaker percentages

**Rhys** (24%), **Felix** (22%), **Joey** (14%), **Quasar** (12%), **Kriss** (11%), **Kyle** (10%), **Steve** (5%), **Lloyd** (3%)

## 1. Opening (0:00) <a href="#1.-opening-agenda-0-00" id="1.-opening-agenda-0-00"></a>

No formal check-in,  announcements, or agenda.\
**Felix (0:02**) Main topic of meeting is to establish clarity on how the DripDropz vote for CCv4 will work.

## 2. Discussion <a href="#3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01" id="3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01"></a>

## **CCv4 vote on DripDropz (00:47)**

### **Date of the vote (part 1)**

**Kyle (0:47)** We have the nominations - we need to know date of the snapshot, and time frame of the vote.\
**Felix (1:20**) Once we hand everything over to you, you will decide the date to fit with your workload.\
**Kyle (1:30**) DripDropz will discuss what is needed to build a good, intuitive UX, and come back with a suggested timeframe, including a date for the snapshot. We need to give people notice, so they can start moving their ADA, since it’s an ADA-based vote.

&#x20;****&#x20;

### **How the vote will work**

**Joey (2:01)** So people vote and the top 5 are the winners?\
**Kyle (2:08)** No, it’s ranked choice. Each person \[NOTE: presumably, this should be “each wallet”] has 5 votes;  you give 100% of the voting power to the first vote, 80% of the voting power to the second vote, 60% to the third, 40% to the fourth and 20% to the fifth.\
**Felix (2:59)** Minimum threshold is 5 ADA; and no downvoting.

### **What will be displayed on the DripDropz platform?**

**Lloyd (3:16)** Their name, and a link to their profile statement on the Cardano forum. If they have made a video, or given their socials, those links will be in their Cardano forum statement, rather than being a separate direct link on the DripDropz platform

### **Checking candidates’ data is correct**

**Quasar (6:06)** 3 people omitted to put their names in their platform statement – I am editing it to add their names.\
**Felix (8:16)** Circle has contacted nominees by email several times to  request a platform statement. Those who have not responded, we assume do not want to stand. So there are 34 candidates.\
**Joey (9:04)** I’ve created an updated spreadsheet, to show who sent in a form, who sent a video, who didn't respond. 4 or 5 people replied to decline the nomination; others did not respond.\
**Kyle (9:40)** As the data in the Cardano Forum was transferred manually from the Google form, error is possible; should we create a read-only version of the spreadsheet, and ask nominees to check their information? And (10:47) if someone was nominated by someone else, it’s possible the wrong email address was given.\
**Rhys (11:01)** No; they have had enough time now; we have to move forward and assume they don’t want to be nominated.\
**Quasar (11:24)** The nomination form was a little unclear whether you were nominating yourself or someone else. And some of the names were difficult to spell. So I will contact everyone via Discord and Twitter to make sure we have the correct name.\
**Rhys (12:15)** OK, Quasar, if you contact everyone and let’s give them until Sunday (23rd) to respond, and then the DripDropz team can start work on Monday.\
**Kyle (12:37)** I would rather do an announcement via the DripDropz platform  - post a read-only copy of the spreadsheet and ask candidates to contact us if they have any problem.\
**Joey (12:57)** If anything does change, could DripDropz update it as we go?\
**Kyle (13:11)** Yes, but we’d prefer not to, as it can get messy.\
**Kyle (13:38)** Is everyone on board with how Lloyd outlined how this will work? {no objections]

### **Date of vote (part 2)**

**Rhys (14:01)** Ideally we want it for the start of Fund 10; but it’s unclear when that will be; so we’ll trust DripDropz to set the date.\
**Kyle (14:20)** We were in a rush, but now we’re not, right?\
**Rhys (15:05)** We have to be respectful of your time – if your team needs longer, we would rather do it right, than rush it for no good reason.

### **Confidence vote after 3 months**

**Joey (15:50)** There is a suggestion to review the candidates’ performance and hold a confidence vote in 3 months. How difficult is that to set up?\
**Lloyd (16:36)** It would be simple – a confidence vote is just an up or down vote for each candidate – so that’s 2 choices for each of 5 candidates.

### **Duration of election**

**Steve (17:04)** Are we still agreed that the vote will run for 2 epochs?\
**Kyle (17:19)** We understood it would run for 10 days; is it to correlate with epochs?\
**Rhys (17:29)** That was the plan.\
**Steve (17:34)** I don’t care any more if it is in sync with when Fund 10 starts. Whenever you are ready, we should start.

### **Candidates promoting themselves**

**Joey (18:00)** When can candidates start promoting themselves?\
**Kyle (18:18)** It’s a permissionless environment; they can do as they please.

### **Date of vote (part 3)**

**Joey (18:59)** Epoch shifts are on 1st, 6th and 11th November.\
**Kyle (19:18)** The sooner, the better for us as well.\
**Lloyd (19:21)** Wait until DripDropz’s product planning meeting later today; we’ll communicate with Rhys and Felix



TBC

## 3. Checkout and close

## Key words from this meeting <a href="#key-words-from-this-meeting" id="key-words-from-this-meeting"></a>

## Appendix

### Abbreviations used/glossary

**ATH** – After Townhall, the breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

**CATH** – Catalyst Africa Town Hall

**Catalyst School** – [https://thecatalyst.school](https://thecatalyst.school/)

**CC** – Catalyst Circle

**CF** – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org/)

**CGO** - [Community Governance Oversight](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/), a F7 and F8 funded proposal that has created a team to discuss and provide oversight of key Catalyst governance processes

**CIP** – Cardano Improvement Proposal [https://cips.cardano.org](https://cips.cardano.org/)&#x20;

**CTC** - Catalyst Technical Council, a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

dRep – delegation representative, a new role that will be introduced for Fund 10; people to whom a voter will be able to delegate their voting power. See the [registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform)

**DIDs** – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

**ETH** – [Eastern Town Hall](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV2lFD4AtGRT-WIrLoX58lg)

**Gimbalabs** - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

**GPS or Catalyst GPS** – an F8 Catalyst funded proposal led by current Circle member Tomi [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299) which seeks to reorganise Catalyst.

**IOG** – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io/)

**LatAm** – the Catalyst community in Latin America. Comprises a regular Town Hall and several other community initiatives.

**NFT** – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

**PA** - Proposal Assessor, a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round (previously called CA, Community Advisor).

**QA-DAO** – [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)

**SPO** – stakepool operator

**VPA** - Veteran Proposal Assessor; a role open to those who have been a PA in previous rounds, which assesses the PAs’ reviews  (previously VCA, Veteran Community Advisor).

**Voltaire** – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting <a href="#intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting" id="intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon

### Agenda for this meeting <a href="#agenda-for-this-meeting" id="agenda-for-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon
