# Meeting #9, 7th July 2022

## Meeting recording

coming soon

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle v3 Meeting #9 <a href="#minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6" id="minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6"></a>

### Present (in order of first speaking) <a href="#present-in-order-of-first-speaking" id="present-in-order-of-first-speaking"></a>

**JP** (facilitator); **Felix Weber** (representing CF); **Tomi Astikainen** (representing PAs); **Harris Warren** (IOG); **Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member); **Steve Lockhart** (Funded Proposers Subcircle, standing in for Mercy); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators)

### Speaker percentages

**JP** (34%), **Harris** (21%), **Felix** (13%), **Joey** (11%), **Tomi** (7%), **Steve** (6%), **Quasar** (5%), **Rhys** (2%)

### Abbreviations used/Glossary <a href="#abbreviations-used-glossary" id="abbreviations-used-glossary"></a>

## 1. Opening, agenda (0:00) <a href="#1.-opening-agenda-0-00" id="1.-opening-agenda-0-00"></a>

## 2. Consent agenda <a href="#3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01" id="3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01"></a>

## 3. Checkout and close

## Key words from this meeting <a href="#key-words-from-this-meeting" id="key-words-from-this-meeting"></a>

## Appendix

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting <a href="#intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting" id="intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon

### Agenda for this meeting <a href="#agenda-for-this-meeting" id="agenda-for-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon



