# Meeting #1, March 3rd 2022, 05:00 UTC

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/eevf92uTVgI" %}

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle v3 Meeting #1

### Present (in order of first speaking)

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Mercy A** (representing Funded Proposers);  **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Nadia Hopkins** (Community Advisors); **JP** (secretary);  **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators) **Harris Warren** (representing IOG); **Bullish Dumpling** (representing Cardano Foundation).&#x20;

**Apologies:** Dimitri Fernando

### Speaker percentages

**Nori** (26%), **Harris** (25%), **Mercy** (13%), **Joey** (13%), **Nadia** (10%), **Rhys** (9%), **JP** (3%), **Dumpling** (1%)

### Abbreviations used / Glossary

API – Application Programming Interface (a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other)

ATH – After Townhall, breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

CA – Community Advisor, a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round

CC – Catalyst Circle

CF – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org)

CTC, Catalyst Technical Council,  a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

Catalyst School – [https://thecatalyst.school](https://thecatalyst.school)

d-Rep – delegation representative, a proposed new role; people to whom a voter will be able to delegate their voting power. See the [registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform)

DID – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

ETH – Eastern Townhall

Gimbalabs - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

IO – the overall organisation that comprises IOG and IOHK

IOG – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io)

NFT – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

QA-DAO –  [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io)

SPO – stakepool operator

VCA – Veteran Community Advisor, a role open to those who have been a CA in previous rounds, to assess the CAs’ reviews

Voltaire – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## 1) Opening, agenda (0:00)

**Check-in (0:03)**

**Announcements (6:31)** – none

**Agenda and align expectations (7:15)** Items added to the agenda: discussion of meeting time;  Fund 8 proposals from Circle.

## 2) Circle Stand-Up (**11:01**)

NOTE: The Stand-up is a go-round using the [Prioritised Problems GitHub board](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/projects/3), where each Circle member in turn says

* what they have worked on since last meeting
* what they will be working on next
* any blocks, or anything they need help with

**Joey (11:32)**

* Attended Swarm meetings, and has brought topics from them to this agenda. Met with June Akra to discuss formation of a sub-circle for Toolmakers and Maintainers. Met with the Philadelphia Cardano group, and some of them have submitted proposals.
* Will be working with June as sub-circle representative, and deciding on approach. Will meet with Circle mentor \[_Tevo Saks_], and with Aharon \[_Porath, who also stood for election to CCv3_] to discuss Problems Board cards, and overall approach.
* No blockers; but challenge is how to fund sub-circle activity – to be discussed in this meeting.           ****          &#x20;

**Nadia (13:37)**

* Creating a prioritised problems board for the community/CA subcircle to raise problems; has worked with QA-DAO to discuss. Has created a CA subcircle group, which is working on comms and workflow. Held an After Town Hall
* Will continue to work on bringing the CA subcircle to life; 3 or 4 smaller groups have formed to work on specific issues e.g. onboarding, VCA criteria, communications process for subcircle. There will be an ATH for VCAs next week.
* Not a block, but an opportunity – would be good for all Circle members to discuss how their individual subcircle processes are working, so we can align.

**Rhys (16:55)**

* Reaching out to other SPOs and inviting them to get involved in Catalyst, submit proposals, become CAs, etc. Links to Prioritised Problem of [how to involve SPOs in Catalyst](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/50). Has also written several proposals together with community members.
* Will be helping people submit Fund8 proposals - the extended submission deadline has helped.. Will also have meetings with several different groups of SPOs
* No blockers, except that SPO community is large and quite disparate – considering using Twitter ads and Reddit to reach people better, would welcome advice on that.

**Harris (20:35)**

* There have been some changes to IOG teams, to support more community outreach. Been working on defining requirements for governance pieces. Still working on open governance APIs; most are now available but there will be some new ones  coming, connected with dReps. Also working on interfaces for direct registration; and on the concept of delegated voting
* Will be sharing details of these things with the community
* Main blocker is lack of time, and amount of time spent in meetings

**Mercy (24:18)**

* Taking note of issues raised in the various Telegram groups; working with Stephen \[_Stephen Whitenstall, Funded Proposer rep on CCv2_]
* Will continue conversations with funded proposers, and how to go forward with a sub-circle. Will be presenting regularly at the Catalyst Co-Ordinator meetings.
* Blockers – funded proposers are a large and busy group, and tend to be most focused on their actual projects; so figuring out the best ways to reach them and include their opinions.

**Dumpling (27:49)**

* Met with Nadia and Felix \[_Felix Weber, CCv1 rep_]. Presented future work and plans at Town Hall
* Will set up regular meetings with CF and possibly with Ambassadors’ Guild representative.
* Blocker – identifying what issues can be worked on.

**Nori (28:51)** Note that none of the problems on the board are tagged with CF yet.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION POINT:**</mark> Dumpling to start to bring issues from CF onto the board.

**Harris (30:01)** Maybe Challenge Teams could help as mentors to Funded Proposers.

## **3. Consent Agenda (31:05)**

### **CA incentives - (31:21)**

* Unclear who added this agenda item, so no-one ready to discuss it
* Nadia got an update on distribution of CA resources [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l4nI2SGlRoRHTv21VjVWN2oT7Kbloka0V7PrqSwh8fQ/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l4nI2SGlRoRHTv21VjVWN2oT7Kbloka0V7PrqSwh8fQ/edit) and will be looking through it in detail.

### **d-Reps letter  (Joey, 33:37)**

**Joey (34:38)** presented an [open letter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10Naaxx7fH2aL\_8YUFzqMBB8RBlzYLwPE1H3pkU4GgRw/edit?usp=sharing) from the Catalyst community to IOG, covering three key issues:

* Questions about the proposed [d-Reps](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform)
* Treasury structure
* Treasury transparency

**(34:11)** Although the letter is addressed to the IOG team, Joey invites CCv3 to also embrace the concerns expressed, and  take ownership

**(35:40)** Joey’s  observations of the meetings where the letter was drafted:

* the community was taken aback by the announcement of d-Reps
* people were concerned that the community had not been brought into the conversation, and that decisions are being made without community input
* the people at the meetings were thoughtful and professional in their approach.

**Harris (38:43):**

* IOG welcomes this type of feedback
* The letter has been shared widely internally at IOG
* I welcome the idea, requested in the letter, of workshops to clarify the specifics of d-Reps, tho I cannot commit to a timescale.
* IOG likes the concept of “one vote, one heartbeat”, and are looking at solutions, including using [Atala Prism](https://atalaprism.io), but currently we are working with wallets, and how d-Reps will work with wallets.
* D-reps are to address the problem that voting is time consuming with 1,000 proposals; many wallets don’t vote; and those which do, only vote for 7 or 8 proposals on average.
* IOG’s goal is also to be more transparent about the Treasury
* But we need to do that with care, to ensure the Treasuries are not compromised.

**JP (45:44)** Glad IOG liked the tone of the letter \[_JP took on responsibility for drafting the letter based on the community’s notes_]

### **Subcircle roles and stipend - Joey (46:47)**

**Joey (46:47)** There is a lot of work for each Circle rep, and they need a subcircle to support them. I have selected June Akra to help me. Is there a way that we formally announce the members of our subcircle? And how do we fund them – does it come out of the [Catalyst Circle Funding Mechanism](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/384249)? And can Circle members align on a rate of stipend that we will give?\
**Nadia (48:43)** The CAs group plans to have small temporary groups, with a named Champion, for specific issues, rather than fixed roles. They may be voluntary at first, but incentivising people is important – hourly rate, or project-based, or something else?\
**Nori (51:45**) The [Catalyst Circle Funding Mechanism](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/384249) is intended as a rapid funding mechanism, $7,000 per Circle member that you can decide how to use. But there are 3 possibilities for incentivising: 1) use that money now and experiment 2) get your groups to submit fund 8 proposals 3) fund it via a change to Catalyst parameters when Circle and the Technical Council are able to do that, which is more long-term.\
Note, it only covers 3 months, so as your Circle tenure is now 6 months, you would need to submit a fund 8 rapid funding proposal or similar to fund the 2nd half of your tenure.\
**Rhys (55:35)** We don’t all have to use our funding in the same way. We have the opportunity to experiment; but we should report back how it goes. And we still have time to submit fund 8 proposals to have another iteration in the next cycle.\
**Nori (57:41)** Note, the Catalyst Circle Funding Mechanism only covers the 5 elected seats; although the Ambassadors’ Guild has a small treasury that Dumpling could use. But for next funding round, maybe consider including all 7 seats.\
**Joey (59:56)** I will go ahead and appoint June Akra as my subcircle representative. We also need sensors in different places, to be sensitive to different time zones and languages.\
&#x20;**Nadia (1:01:21)** CAs have a [visioning document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uINg2zE3JnSvMza2T\_8i3dPUq4irhnFwkLQYTLekCA0/edit) about the subcircle idea; and the CAs communications group have a [prioritised problems workflow](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lozRc4seZ9RfiOt83S3YOmAdxHFdJ9gOPi0qf0vxnt4/edit#slide=id.gc6f919934\_0\_0)\
**Nori (1:02:08)** Circle members are only funded for the next 3 months – Circle Admin is submitting a proposal to fund the following 3 months, but is the current $1,000 enough?\
**JP (1:03:00)** CC Admin is drafting a more comprehensive Fund 8 proposal in Open Source Development Ecosystem challenge, covering the Admin team, Circle members’ stipend, and mentorship – everything needed for governance, all in one proposal. Although we could separate it out again if preferred.\
**Joey (1:05:36)** Circle stipend is taxable income?\
**Nori (1:06:03)** Depends on local laws; Circle Admin can’t give tax advice. Another issue beyond the scope of this discussion – we may need to pay Circle reps immediately; if we wait, and the price of ADA drops, you will not get your full $1,000\
**Mercy (1:08:10)** Can Circle as a proposer request whole funding upfront, to give more control over how it is disbursed?\
**Harris (1:09:39)** There is the issue of milestones and demonstrating that the proposal is making progress.\
**Nori (1:12:06)** Circle Fund 7 proposals are: &#x20;

* [Catalyst Circle Funding Mechanism](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/384249) - $37,500
* [CCv3: Sustaining the Circle ](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/384250) $6,000
* [CC Admin Team Scope Expansion](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/384245) $15,000
* [Catalyst Circle Treasury Management](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/383284) $11,400
* [Catalyst Circle Mentorship](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/385019)  $10,000

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark>** ** Admin team to ask IOG if Circle can get the full funding for the Catalyst Circle Funding Mechanism proposal, rather than in tranches.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark> Admin team to add this to the Board as a Prioritised Problem

### **New Prioritised Problem:  “**[**Achieve clarification on exact timing of release of funds each month to funded proposers**](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/75)**" – Mercy (1:16:01)**

**Mercy  (1:16:01**) Timing of release of funds is a big issue for funded proposers for good fiscal management. It’s  currently done in a labour-intensive, manual way; it’s OK if it’s slow; but s it possible to have a definite date and time, so that funded proposers can plan for it and for the volatility of ADA? Could we form a subcommittee with IOG to work on it?

**Joey (1:19:52)** Some proposers have not even done Proof of Life yet, and challenge teams have not been able to contact them.

**Harris (1:20:39)** Agree – let’s assign IOG to that problem. We are working hard on being less manual; and we are working to ensure the system is not being gamed.

**Rhys (1:23:35)** Should not be too difficult to build something t do this – could involve the Plutus pioneers, open-source it to the community? I’m happy to help.

### **New Prioritised Problem : “**[**Permanent allocation of treasury to support admin, community & governance projects**](https://github.com/Catalyst-Circle/Catalyst-Prioritized-Problems/issues/77)**” - Mercy (1:24:50)**

**Mercy (1:25:08)** In fund 8 we don’t know if proposals for ongoing governance and admin work, for the benefit of the ecosystem, will be successful. Is there a way to fund it outside of the proposals process, for consistency? I know many people have been thinking and working on this..

**Nori (1:28:00)** Very important. The Fund 8 proposal JP is writing is a baseline budget for Circle and the admin team governance layer. There could be a conversation about Catalyst parameters around this.

**Joey (1:28:43)** Harris mentioned there would be permanent funding for d-Reps; maybe there could be the same for this.

**Harris (1:29:16)** I support it being on the board; IOG, and maybe CF, and other voices from the community, could be involved in discussing: where would funding come from, would it be in perpetuity or just for a certain period, .

### **Livestreaming Circle meetings  (Rhys, 1:30:24)**

**Rhys (1:30:24)** I plan to livestream Circle meetings, to help with transparency, and publicise Circle’s role – part of my wider initiative to promote Catalyst to SPOs, ADA holders and the wider community – and I wanted to check it’s OK with everyone. Everyone has the option to turn their camera off if they prefer.

**Joey (1:32:12)** Since we are being recorded anyway, it should be no problem. But if we ever need to discuss human resources issues, we might have to take those offline.

**Harris (1:32:40)** Agreed. The expectation is that everything we say here is already recorded.

**Nori (1:33:14)** Any objections? \[_none_] Question on longevity once Rhys is no longer part of Circle, if the community has come to expect livestreaming, how will we transition – but we need not solve that now.

**Harris (1:34:06)** Do we have an agreed process for how we vote on decisions like this?

**Nori (1:34:59)** Circle originated from a [sociocratic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sociocracy) approach; but it has changed since then, so we do need a group agreement on how we should reach decisions.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION POINT**</mark><mark style="color:red;">:</mark> Rhys will livestream Circle meetings in future.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION POINT:**</mark> Methods of reaching a decision to be discussed next Circle meeting; Nori and Admin team to prepare something as a starting point for discussion.

### **Time of next meeting (1:36:58)**

**Nori (1:36:58)** Currently scheduled for 17th March, 5pm UTC; is this OK for everyone? Also suggest we do not keep it bound to UTC once Daylight Saving time begins; although that might not work since not everyone switches to Daylight Saving at the same time.

**All** Discussion of various time options

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM:**</mark>** ** Next meeting will be 17th March 5pm UTC;  at that meeting, will discuss time of future meetings.

### **Circle-specific funding proposals (1:42:30)**

**Nori (1:42:30**) We don’t have time for detailed discussion now, but can discuss on Slack any ideas for further Circle proposals beyond the core one that JP is working on

**JP (1:44:34)** __ The main proposal will include paying Circle, but will not include anything to pay subcircles, so that might guide what additional proposals are needed.

## **4. Close (1:46:41)**

Feedback form **(1:46:44)**

Checkout **(1:47:14)** – each member in turn briefly says how they are feeling

Meeting ends **1:51:22**

## **Key words from this meeting**

![](<../.gitbook/assets/frequentword CCv3#1.JPG>)

## **Appendix**

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting

coming soon

### Agenda for this meeting

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/Agenda, CCv3 Meeting #1 - Mar 3rd 2022.doc" %}
