# Meeting #7, 9th June 2022

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/U68cQIflz14" %}

## Minutes of Catalyst Circle v3 Meeting #7 <a href="#minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6" id="minutes-of-catalyst-circle-v3-meeting-6"></a>

### Present (in order of first speaking) <a href="#present-in-order-of-first-speaking" id="present-in-order-of-first-speaking"></a>

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Felix Weber** (CF); **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators); **Nadia Hopkins** (Community Advisors**); Harris Warren** (IOG); **Mercy A** (Funded Proposers**); Dimitri Fernando** (General ADA Holders); **Kriss Baird** (IOG); **JP** (secretary); **Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member).

### Speaker percentages

**Nori** (19%), **Felix** (15%), **Nadia** (14%), **Harris** (12%), **Mercy** (10%), **Dimitri** (8%), **Rhys** (7%), **Kriss** (6%), **Joey** (6%), **JP** (2%), **Quasar** (<1%)

### Abbreviations used/Glossary <a href="#abbreviations-used-glossary" id="abbreviations-used-glossary"></a>

ATH – After Townhall, breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

CA – Community Advisor, the old name for a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round - now renamed PA

CC – Catalyst Circle

CF – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org/)

CTC, Catalyst Technical Council,  a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

Catalyst School – [https://thecatalyst.school](https://thecatalyst.school/)

CGO - [Community Governance Oversight](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/), a F7 and F8 funded proposal that has created a team to discuss and provide oversight of key Catalyst governance processes

dRep – delegation representative, a new role that will be introduced for Fund 10; people to whom a voter will be able to delegate their voting power. See the [registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform) and [documentation](https://bit.ly/dRep1)

DID – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

ETH – [Eastern Town Hall](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV2lFD4AtGRT-WIrLoX58lg)

Gimbalabs - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

IOG – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io/)

NFT – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

PA - Proposal Assessor, the new name for the role that used to be called CA

QA-DAO –  [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)

SPO – stakepool operator

VCA – Veteran Community Advisor, the old name for a Catalyst role open to those who have been a CA in previous rounds, to assess the CAs’ reviews

VPA - Veteran Proposal Assessor; the new name for the role that used to be called VCA.

Voltaire – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## 1. Opening, agenda (0:00) <a href="#1.-opening-agenda-0-00" id="1.-opening-agenda-0-00"></a>

## 2. Circle stand-up <a href="#2.-circle-stand-up-9-06" id="2.-circle-stand-up-9-06"></a>

Due to the length of the Consent Agenda discussion, there was no Circle Stand-up in this meeting.

## 3. Consent agenda (21:28) <a href="#3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01" id="3.-consent-agenda-1-07-01"></a>

### What is the status and future of the Circle?

### What is the agenda and output of the Circle for the remainder of the term?&#x20;

### Election for CCv4

### Discuss changes to the prioritised problem board process

## 4. Checkout and close (1:53:01) <a href="#4.-checkout-and-close-1-57-15" id="4.-checkout-and-close-1-57-15"></a>

## Key words from this meeting <a href="#key-words-from-this-meeting" id="key-words-from-this-meeting"></a>

## Appendix

### Intelligent-verbatim transcript of this meeting <a href="#intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting" id="intelligent-verbatim-transcript-of-this-meeting"></a>

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/Meeting #7, June 9th 2022 QA-DAO verbatim transcript.doc" %}

### Agenda for this meeting <a href="#agenda-for-this-meeting" id="agenda-for-this-meeting"></a>

coming soon
