# Working meeting, 25th August 2022

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/qz4XV9YI1uA" %}

### Present (in order of first speaking)

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Felix Weber** (CF); Mercy A (Funded Proposers); **Steve Lockhart** (deputy for Mercy; Funded Proposers); **Kriss Baird** (IOG); **Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member); **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators); **Peter Wolcott** (secretary).

### Speaker percentages

**Steve** (19%), **Kriss** (18%), **Quasar** (15%), **Nori** (14%), **Rhys** (12%), **Felix** (10%), **Mercy** (8%), **Joey** (4%), **Peter** (<1%)

## **1. Opening, agenda (0:00)**

Check-in **(0:02)**\
****Agenda item added: **** Pol.is (**Quasar, 1:14)**

## 2. Consent agenda

Tomi leaving the Circle\
Voting delays\
Document from Zoe, "[Community suggestions for Alternatives to CCv4 structure](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s5qkD701rJPYZwGVzoLiQPVc6DoZv61pbq4QPp9Nuc4/edit?usp=sharing)" \
Election process\
Election criteria for CCv4\
Code of Conduct\
Pol.is

### Tomi leaving the Circle (3:52) <a href="#docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627" id="docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627"></a>

Since the last Circle meeting on 18th August, Tomi Astikainen (PA subcircle, and lead of Catalyst GPS) has resigned from Circle meetings.\
No clear knowledge on why he left.\
\
**Joey (3:52)** He was trying to do the right thing; I want him to feel he was valued.\
**Kriss (4:18)** Discussions about GPS were people legitimately sharing their opinion. Perhaps he felt it was overly critical; but it shows that we do need community buy-in for big changes.\
**Steve (5:49)** GPS was the only thing that had been offered, so that's why we looked at it.\
**(7:48)** Dispute between Felix and Quasar about aggression \
**Nori (12:28)** Please discuss this outside the meeting if you need to.\
**Joey (13:01)** Are we going to seek someone else to fill Tomi's seat?\
**Nori (13:11)** We will reach out the the PA subcircle and ask.&#x20;

### Voting delay (13:46) <a href="#docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627" id="docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627"></a>

**Felix (13:36)** The voting delay is causing harm to proposers who are already building and who  have set their budgets to take account of the expected Fund dates. It would be better if it could have been communicated earlier, and if Circle had been consulted.\
**Kriss (13:50)** Sometimes flaws and bugs only arise at the last stages of testing. If we had consulted Circle first, it would have added to the delay. For the projects that are affected - there is no guarantee they will get funded, so they should not bank on it. But we can do a retrospective to look at how we could improve; and it's noted that it has caused frustration.\
**Rhys (19:17)** In future, Circle could help IOG get information out to the community.\
**Kriss (20:17)** Agreed  - in future, we'll communicate with Circle first.

### Zoe's doc, "[Community suggestions for Alternatives to CCv4 structure](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s5qkD701rJPYZwGVzoLiQPVc6DoZv61pbq4QPp9Nuc4/edit?usp=sharing)" (26:51) <a href="#docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627" id="docs-internal-guid-3447e081-7fff-f5ca-3b1e-4405c4ffa627"></a>

**Quasar (28:22)** There were some community concerns about Circle voting to shape CCv4 around GPS's "categories" structure; in my opinion we should have considered alternatives. So Zoe created [this doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s5qkD701rJPYZwGVzoLiQPVc6DoZv61pbq4QPp9Nuc4/edit?usp=sharing) to collate community ideas for other ways to structure Circle.\
**Steve Lockhart (28:22)** I did not read all of it. As an investor, what I care about is the goals, to bank the unbanked and create a new financial operating system for the world. Just like we have the "Things may break" slide at the start of every Town Hall, we should also have those goals stated - and that should provide the basis of the structure for Catalyst, and for Circle itself. Circle should focus on banking the unbanked and building a new financial ecosystem.\
**Rhys (39:50)** Some of the ideas in the document are amazing - the Aleatory Circle is a cool idea. It's frustrating that it only came out recently; but maybe now is not a good time to shift direction. Maybe we should ask the next round of Circle to take these suggestions very seriously, and think about the best way to iterate.\
**Nori (42:46)** Is there a pressing need to elect a CCv4 now? Or should we slow down, and have more conversations with the community, since they are generating all these great ideas?\
**Joey (44:17)** I don't see any reason why we could not slow down. But we keep hearing the question "what is the purpose of Circle", so - what was it's original purpose?\
**Kriss (44:17)** The original idea was very similar to now - a human sensor array to sense problems from the community. A better way to address it is to say where we want to be. We want an entity that represents the community of stakeholders that are involved; similar to Trustees. In order to reach that state, there has to be confidence that the community can operate the Treasury,that this is self sustaining.\
\
Election process\
Election criteria for CCv4\
Code of Conduct\
Pol.is

## Meeting summary

coming soon

### Checkout and close

## Abbreviations/Glossary

**ATH** – After Townhall, the breakout rooms after the regular Wednesday [TownHall meeting](https://bit.ly/3rCicSR)

**CATH** – Catalyst Africa Town Hall

**Catalyst School** – [https://thecatalyst.school](https://thecatalyst.school/)

**CC** – Catalyst Circle

**CF** – [Cardano Foundation](https://cardanofoundation.org/)

**CGO** - [Community Governance Oversight](https://quality-assurance-dao.gitbook.io/community-governance-oversight/), a F7 and F8 funded proposal that has created a team to discuss and provide oversight of key Catalyst governance processes

**CIP** – Cardano Improvement Proposal [https://cips.cardano.org](https://cips.cardano.org/)&#x20;

**CTC** - Catalyst Technical Council, a proposed body that will be appointed by IOG to be involved in [bicameral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bicameralism) governance alongside the Catalyst community.

dRep – delegation representative, a new role that will be introduced for Fund 10; people to whom a voter will be able to delegate their voting power. See the [registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPSb\_cDlIxN6cnnbOrJN\_oxDBmxB3kENbsE\_\_pmMAw8yJk0w/viewform)

**DIDs** – [Decentralised identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized\_identifiers)

**ETH** – [Eastern Town Hall](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV2lFD4AtGRT-WIrLoX58lg)

**Gimbalabs** - [https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid](https://gimbalabs.com/gimbalgrid)

**GPS or Catalyst GPS** – an F8 Catalyst funded proposal led by current Circle member Tomi [https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299](https://cardano.ideascale.com/c/idea/398299) which seeks to reorganise Catalyst.

**IOG** – [Input/Output Global](https://iohk.io/)

**LatAm** – the Catalyst community in Latin America. Comprises a regular Town Hall and several other community initiatives.

**NFT** – [non-fungible token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-fungible\_token)

**PA** - Proposal Assessor, a role open to anyone in Catalyst, to assess proposals in each funding round (previously called CA, Community Advisor).

**QA-DAO** – [Quality Assurance Distributed Autonomous Organisation](https://quality-assurance-dao.github.io/)

**SPO** – stakepool operator

**VPA** - Veteran Proposal Assessor; a role open to those who have been a PA in previous rounds, which assesses the PAs’ reviews  (previously VCA, Veteran Community Advisor).

**Voltaire** – the next phase on the [Cardano roadmap to decentralisation](https://roadmap.cardano.org/en/voltaire/)

## Appendix

### Transcript of this meeting
