# Working meeting, 30th June 2022

## Meeting recording

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/A3qjTH5z-Lw" %}

### **Present (in order of first speaking)**

**Nori Nishigaya** (facilitator); **Kriss Baird** (IOG); **Harris Warren** (IOG); **Joey Chessher** (Toolmakers and Maintainers); **Tomi Astikainen** (PAs sub-circle group); **Felix Weber** (CF); **Quasar** (General Ada-Holders sub-circle).

### **Speaker percentages**

**Nori** (23%), **Harris** (21%), **Tomi** (16%), **Kriss** (16%), **Joey** (11%), **Quasar** (9%), **Felix** (5%)

## Meeting summary

### **0:03 Ways to include the community in planning for Circle v4**

* a Pol.is poll on what Circle should be about
* After Town Hall on Weds 7th, to present the Pol.is poll and to discuss CCv4 election.
* Twitter Spaces.

**Harris  3:28**  Update on Code of Conduct: we've engaged the IO attorneys and we'll share  version in the next week or two.\
**Kriss 6:54**  How to publicise the poll; and concern about trolling\
**Tomi  9:04**  Kriss's original blog post defining Circle is a year old. Still valid?\
**Harris  9:44**  We can keep it; rewrite it as something for people to disagree with; or get feedback from the community first, to create a revised version. Prefer the latter.

### **10:54 Issues to address**

**Felix  10:54**  A recent Swarm session felt the current Circle is more a working group to figure out the election process and any changes to structure and purpose for CCv4. A reset – start from scratch, but with the experience we’ve gained. Because Circle now creates friction in the community.\
**Kriss 12:24**  Friction might be due to personal relationships in CCv3\
**Joey  13:36**  We need methods to handle conflicts within Circle, and remove someone from Circle.\
**Harris  14:41**  People don’t know **** what Circle does, although we described it every Town Hall. Community input on what we should be doing and how, allows us to re-set. I love the idea of sub-circles but we need to define how they work. Should there be any elected positions now?&#x20;

### **Roles in Circle**

**Nori  16:29**  Looking back, some reps have struggled because they didn't have a natural community they were connected with. It's backwards to elect someone and hope they find the people they're representing. Self-evolving sub circles, that prove they have an identity, could start to sense problems on their own, and then pick someone through election or appointment to represent their community at Circle.

**Nori  17:44** If the independent communities in Catalyst have issues, maybe those are the correct issues for Circle to talk about. Instead of artificially creating structures, look at what's actually happening. Decentralisation means you push decision-making out to the edges as far as possible; only when there's things that need to be talked about between groups, do groups need to meet; and it only needs to be the groups that it pertains to. Don’t start with a structure and try to fill it - let communities that are already strong, represent themselves.

**20:03**  The current roles in Circle are proposers, proposal assessors,  toolmakers, general ADA holders, SPOs, and CF ambassadors. What about referees, mentors, dReps, challenge teams, and VPAs? And does it have to be roles? Or could it be categories?\
**23:26**  The purpose of this meeting is not to figure out the roles or the categories, but to figure out how to include the community voices on discussing it.\
**23:58**  Include the question of categories, or roles, or seats, in the Pol.is poll.\
**Quasar  26:57**  People serve multiple roles – it’s difficult to choose a category or functional group to belong to**.** Categories could work, but it's a division of labour and /or product; similar to industry classifications, which doesn't foster innovation.\
**Tomi  30:58  -** a slide on his suggested approach based on the [Balanced Scorecard ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balanced\_scorecard)performance management tool. No challenge-setting; funding would be given to categories, and the community could set mid-term or short-term objectives within this framework. Could set different requirements for the representative for different groups; and people could apply for the role, e.g. on IdeaScale. The vote could be during the “cooldown” between Funds. Or maybe they don’t even need to be voted at all.\
**Harris  36:01**  It will be easier for IOG to add items to a ballot in the short term, than to wait for the fund vote to finish and then do a special voting session. That is possible, but harder to do. Or – if  there's already a community of PAs or SPOs, for example, they could have their own election outside of this general election process. General ADA Holder, I would suggest, probably needs to be on a general election, because it's such a wide-open role. Maybe it needs to be split into multiple roles by categories, or geographies. We can pose those questions to the community to see what they recommend.\
**Joey  39:19**  Voting from within your own role fulfils Nori's point that things come up from the community you serve - but it's what we already do. If we continue with that, the voting process and the timing should be consistent.\
**Nori  39:55**  Holacracy doesn’t involve voting or reps; a group decides amongst themselves that this person will represent them in a meeting; so it's not like an elected representative with perceived power, it's more just a person burdened with the task of reporting what this group is doing, in this other meeting. In a decentralised setting, it's important to get away from the power, middle structures, and all the garbage associated with that, so that people aren't vying for popularity or notoriety or trying to get something. "Push it to the edges", and don't make this a political thing - make it how we work together and collaborate.\
**Tomi  40:56**  To reiterate what Quasar said before: it's really difficult to choose what should be my group. I've done most things; I'm a funded proposer, CA, PA, VPA, Toolmaker, I'm going to be a dRep, and I am in challenge teams. So it doesn't make sense for me to be structured like this.\
**Nori  41:44**  You can be everywhere, if you want to - but you don't actually have to fill the role to represent all of them. That's why we have a decentralised community.

### **IOG's role**

**Joey  42:03**  As a community member, if I have an idea, I would want to present it to someone who would take it to a Circle, and a decision be made on it. As Circle, we have to collaborate with IOG and CF to actually make things happen; so we need to figure out how that works.\
**Harris  42:40**  We want to change it so it is run outside of IOG, and so there's an organisation that can make decisions on its own. That's the mindset we need to start building, in trying to create the structure to enable Catalyst to be run and decided on by the community.\
**Joey  43:34** That's a goal; but I think the perception in the community now is that the final say is IOG’s. Circle can present stuff, but we can't make changes without IOG's permission.

**Harris  44:06**  No, you definitely don't need IOG's permission.

**Quasar  44:26  I**f the community brings things to Circle, Circle presents them to IOG, and IOG signs it off - for me, that counts as making change. A lot of people are okay with that. But Project Catalyst has had a product manager, and a project manager, to oversee things - what is that functional group or role in this type of community?\
**Harris  45:41**  It's not a hierarchy – IO just want a seat at the table. We will have an opinion and we want to submit that; and we also would like the opportunity to be a service provider,  add value, support API's for a time. But it doesn't necessarily make it a hierarchy. It should be permissionless and decentralised.\
**Nori  46:53  T**o comment on the Circle bringing things to IO, I think that's even limiting. We saw some beautiful stuff happen when Mercy directly connected with IO and changed the payout scheduling. It doesn't have to be the entire Circle working together -  if it makes sense that two sub-circles can figure it out, they should.\
**Joey  47:34**  But someone still has to give the go-ahead. Even with the example with Mercy, she went to IO and IO said, yes. It wasn't that Mercy said yes. I know IO wants to transition to where we could decide, but we're not there yet.\
**Harris  48:21**  That's a valid point - in that particular case, we happen to drive that process as a service provider. But some of these processes will be owned by people outside of IO, in the near future; so we need to start experimenting what that looks like.\
**Tomi  51:12**  I just want to point out regarding the slides I showed before, that it's not far away from what we're already doing. If you don't like the titles, you could name them after the Circle members.

### 52:21  Next steps for the Pol.is poll and the After Town Hall

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark> Felix, Rhys, Joey and Quasar to work on After Town Hall**.**&#x20;

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark>** ** Nori will start Pol.is poll by sending it to Circle members, who all add statements, then share to their communities; then Friday 8th, include it in the Catalyst mailout. **** Also announce at Town Hall.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark> Twitter Spaces – Quasar to organise, and to create a calendar – and will document and return info to the team.

<mark style="color:red;">**ACTION ITEM**</mark> Share any Twitter spaces and other schedules in advance with Danny, and Tim Richmond (marketing and communications lead in Catalyst) so they can publicise.

### **W**ho is now part of Circle

**Nori 1:06:59** There's still 7 people, but we may have different people subbing from time to time. Mercy, Rhys and Joey are still on Circle; Quasar is replacing Dimitri at the meetings; Tomi is replacing Nadia; Felix has replaced Bullish Dumpling for CF; Kriss will be replacing Harris for IOG.

**1:07:23**  Jokes and goodbyes

### **Meeting ends  1:10:48**

## Verbatim transcript

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/CCv3 Working meeting, 30th June 2022 QA-DAO verbatim transcript.doc" %}
