# Working meeting, 28th July 2022

## Meeting recording

coming soon

### **Present (in order of first speaking)**

**Peter Wolcott** (facilitator); **Quasar** (ADA Holders subcircle member); **Rhys Morgan** (stakepool operators); **Kriss Baird** (IOG); **Steve Lockhart** (standing in for Mercy, Funded Proposers); **Kenric Nelson** (presenting suggestions on determining Circle membersâ€™ rewards); **Lloyd** (DripDropz; invited by Felix); **Felix Weber** (representing CF); **Kyle** (DripDropz; invited by Felix); **Latheesan** (DripDropz; invited by Felix); **Dagwell** \[unknown];  **Rares** (New Mindflow)**.**

### **Speaker percentages**

**Kriss** (17%), **Kyle** (14%), **Rhys** (13%), **Kenric** (11%), **Quasar** (10%), **Latheesan** (9%), **Felix** (8%), **Steve** (6%), **Lloyd** (5%), **Peter** (3%), **Rares** (2%), **Dagwell** (1%)

## Meeting summary

coming soon

## **Appendix**

### **Verbatim transcript**

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/CCv3 working meeting 28th July 2022 - QA-DAO verbatim transcript.doc" %}
