# Working meeting 14th July 2022

Today's planned working meeting was not recorded.\
\
It was described in Slack as a call between Ondřej Hálek of Catalyst GPS, Felix (CF rep) and Quasar (General ADA Holder subcircle member).

The call was arranged by Tomi  (GPS member and PAs Circle rep) in order for Ondřej to present _a **proposal for "a hybrid model" where key stakeholders and community groups would be represented in the Circle and that would steer the collaborative strategy making in Project Catalyst.**_  (as described in Slack by Tomi).

As a result of this meeting, Ondřej was invited to present the proposal to Circle, which he did the following week, 21st July.
